RB2B hit 6.3 million in ARR in around 18
months with just three full-time
employees rapidly growing from Adam
Robinson's founder brand and posting
organically on LinkedIn. They partner
with us at breaking B2B to ramp up their
SEO strategy. I'll share under the
bonnet so you can see our exact game
plan to scale pipeline from Google
organic and LLM for Adam SAS. For
context, RB2B provide visitor level
identification software pinging you in
Slack the exact people and companies as
they're visiting your website. So, let
me break down our exact SEO strategy for
our B2B so you can steal it, apply it,
and start driving pipeline for your B2B
company or SAS company with Google
organic and LLM. Let's dive in. So
here's a highle overview of the strategy
we're running to start ramping signups
for RB2B from Google organic search as
well as thinking about LLMs like chat
GBT. One part of the strategy is going
after money keywords. This is where we
dive into dream clients and understand
exactly what they search when they need
the exact offering that RB2B provide
around visitor identification software
and similar terms. Or perhaps they're
frustrated with their current vendor
software or tool and looking to move
away. Maybe they're evaluating options.
So perhaps comparing one or two or more
tools. Or maybe they have a crisp,
specific, expensive problem or job to be
done. RB2B solves. And we can position
RB2B as a painkiller. All going after
net new content, which could be
articles, landing pages, listicles,
comparison pages, or more. The second
part of the strategy is going after
quick wins. So evaluating what
commercial content we have on the site
already, i.e. bottom of funnel or
midfunnel content. that's perhaps
lagging behind on maybe the bottom of
Google and could use a quick uplift,
maybe improving the content, some
optimization work, some technical work,
maybe directing some backlinks to give
it a boost to start driving signups from
those key commercial pages. We'll be
working to get RB2B placements in
external listical articles in positions
1 to three for terms like best website
visitor tracking tools, B2B lead genen
tools, and a bunch of similar terms and
topics. So, think of the classic best X
software lists that you've probably seen
time and again on Google and now chat
GBT. That's where we'll be looking to
get placements on those high traffic,
well-ranking pages in the top three
positions. Plus, we'll be investing
resources into link building, structured
data optimization, technical
recommendations, some conversion
recommendations to get best bang for
buck from existing traffic, as well as
other quick wins on existing pages.
Before I carry on with the video, if
you're looking to scale pipeline demos,
signups with SEO and AI search, but
perhaps you lack the resources in house,
why not grab a call with me over at
breakingb2b.com or hit the link in the
description below and we can see if
we're a good fit to start driving
pipeline and revenue with organic
search. Right, back to the video. So,
getting into practical advice, first
off, we want to start with a quick wins.
What are the existing pages, existing
content, whether that's articles,
listicicals, comparison pages, landing
pages, or otherwise do we have on the
site already that's maybe ranking
perhaps just below top three organic on
Google or a little bit lower and maybe
with a bit of optimization, with some
improvements to the content, maybe some
technical work, maybe directing some
link building to it, we could see an
uplift and get those top three organic
on Google and start driving signups
often as quick as 90 days by working on
those existing commercial bottom of
funnel pages to get that quick uptick.
So to give an example of a quick win, if
we search for a money keyword like best
website visitor identification software,
I can see in the Google AI overviews
that RB2B are listed top in that Google
AI overview, which is nice as this is
something a dream client will search for
when they most likely need RB2B's
software and tool. So they're top of the
AI overview and there also looks like
organic number two in the blue links.
What did we do? We reviewed the page
before RB2B were actually listed at the
bottom of the list. So instead of being
number one, they were much lower towards
the bottom. And before I think there was
only around seven companies listed. So
we benchmarked what was ranking top.
Added three to four more companies to
the list. Positioned our B2B as number
one. Talked about their differentiator
where they stand out in the marketplace.
Make sure we show the product in action,
aka the aha moment of when that visitor
visits your website, and then it pings
through to Slack so your sales team can
get on the case. Talk about kind of the
key features, pricing, and all that good
stuff. and make it nice and easy with
the pros and cons so then folks can
easily start for free and sign up. And
our typical recommendation for an
article listical is yeah position
yourself as number one. Give a fair
comparison of your differentiators in
the market. Show your product in action.
Be real about where you excel and where
you fall short and then do a fair
comparison of the other companies below.
But you definitely want yourself listed
ideally one or top three as there's a
few main benefits. Tools like chat GBT
and LLM are often pulling from these.
Most folks won't scroll right to the
bottom. They'll probably look at the top
three listings and then ping those to
their exact team or add you into the
consideration set. It's going to be
quite rare, at least from our data, that
folks scroll right to the bottom of the
article. They probably see the top three
or so and then choose those for their
selected vendors to review. And you'll
also see if you go on to chat GBT, we've
searched best website visitor
identification software, too. And we can
see RB2B now being listed. And the nice
thing here is the citation. So the link
they're pulling from is this exact
listical that we've recently updated.
So, it shows how powerful these top X
software, top X tools, top X platform
lists are to have as an owned asset on
your own website. We'll talk about
actually getting placements on external
listicles on other websites a bit later
on, but having these owned every
category, every money keyword that you
actually want to drive signups, leads,
or demos for is super important because
listicles not only rank exceptionally
well on Google organic, but they're
often pulled from on LLMs like Chat GBT
and often cited. And if you want to find
quick wins on your own website, tools
like Hrefs or Semrush are great for
this. For example, you can just go into
Hrefs. You can hit the opportunities
link on the side tab. You can go to
lowhanging fruit keywords. Then you can
filter it like positions 4 to 15. So
just below the top three Google organic.
You can then filter intent to
commercial. So it's only going after
those commercial kind of bottom of
funnel midfunnel terms. Hit show
results. And then it's going to show you
those keywords and pages that are
perhaps lagging that could maybe use a
review content refresh, maybe benchmark
against what's ranking top organic right
now and look to completely blow that out
of the water in terms of adding any
unique research. If it's a listical,
maybe you add a couple other placements,
maybe you add some more examples. You
can add some more trust signals like
maybe you need to add an author bio.
Maybe you need to add some more social
proof whether that's client quotes,
customer testimonials, client case study
videos of why they chose you over a
competitor. All to adhere to Google's
EAT experience, expertise, authority,
and trust and make sure whoever is
writing it, whether it's yourself or a
contractor is extracting that subject
matter expertise. So, not only is your
content going to rank, but it's also
going to resonate and convert those
dream clients from just browsing to
actually trusting that you're the right
tool or software to get the job done.
And let me show you another quick win
that we got for RB2B slightly different
page. Now, we're going for an
alternative. So, a competitor based
keyword. So, we know that a lot of folks
might get frustrated from their existing
vendor. And in this case, we've gone for
lead feeder alternatives. So if folks
get annoyed or frustrated, maybe the
customer service drops, maybe the
pricing goes skyh high when you add more
seats, or maybe something else happens,
then these high sales intent prospects
are going to search for competitor
alternatives or similar to look for
alternative softwares or tools on the
market. So we recently did a quick wins
update to this article and we're now
ranking organic number one here for
RB2B. If I fire open this page, so
similar kind of process really
benchmarking against what's ranking top,
looking to add any unique research,
ideas, insights. Also on this one,
you'll see we've got an intro. Then
we've got a table here, kind of the top
tools again before. Previously, our B2B
was not mentioned number one, but we
want them there. So it's going to get
pulled up nicely in one the
consideration set if a dream client's
browsing this page and secondly to start
getting solid visibility in LLMs like
chat GBT and similar and tools like
Google AI overviews and you'll see again
we've got RB2B top here we're showing
the product in action so we're showing
when prospects visit your site you can
get pinged in Slack with that example
there so your sales team can get on the
case talking about kind of key features
pricing pros and cons so doing a fair
comparison of of where they do well
where they fall short and then making it
easy for folks to get started sign up
for and then a fair comparison of the
other tools on the market. And it's
worth noting that general best practices
for any money keyword page is to have
the keyword within the URL. So for
slashmoney keyword. So in this case,
rb2b.com and then/leadfeeder
alternatives. Typically have that in
your H1. You only have one H1 per page.
So in this case, the H1 is top 11 lead
feeder alternatives to supercharge your
lead generation. And then usually
subtitles, headings are split up by H2.
You usually have a few internal links
linking to perhaps relevant landing
pages or back to the homepage and vice
versa. You have landing pages or other
articles that will link back to this
page as well. And I'll show you under
the bonnet quickly of how our content
and SEO team actually did this together
inside of a Google doc. So before I
think there was only seven tools or so
on the page. We ramped up to the top 11
elite feeder alternatives. Added a table
at the start as we mentioned position
now RB to be number one. So, they're
most likely to get into that
consideration set.
Ramped up the intro. Positioned RB2B as
number one. Have that screenshot of the
product aha moment where it pings you in
Slack when someone visits your site from
US. Talk about the key features of RB2B
that dream clients actually care about
backed by customer research. Have a nice
screenshot of pricing. Talk about the
free plan, the pro plan, the custom
plan. Be open about the pros and cons.
Say, "Look, we're not for everyone.
Here's where we work really well. Here's
where we fall short." Added some schema
markup. and then did a fair comparison
of the other competitors on the market.
We also built out structured data for
RB2B which helps search engines better
understand the content of the website.
Can also help you with rich snippets and
can potentially improve click-through
rates on the search engines. So, there
are a bunch of quick wins for RB2B when
it came to those commercial bottom
offunnel sales pages that are likely to
attract high intent prospects. that are
either directly looking for their
software or tools or perhaps looking to
move away from their current vendor. And
it's worth noting that word count isn't
the be all and end all isn't a
definitive Google ranking factor. But if
you're adding more valuable content,
i.e. content with unique research, point
of view, showing your differentiation.
Really tapping into to trying to
resonate with dream clients problems,
motivations, jobs to be done, and
positioning your tool, product, software
as the painkiller, adhering to EAT,
showing those proof and trust signals,
then it's more likely to do a lot more
good than bad. So, next up, let's talk
about the net new content strategy to
drive pipeline and sign up. So, as we
covered, there was a bunch of quick wins
as RB2B already had some listicles, some
competitor content that wasn't ranking
as well as it could be. So, we got that
updated and ranking effectively. Next
was to look at the net new
opportunities. So, our B2B's niche of
visitor identification software has a
ton of opportunity when it comes
prospects that are looking to switch
vendors or evaluate or compare vendors.
And one lesserknown play that we've ran
is yes we've covered listic calls and
articles and updating those but for some
of these search terms like competitor
one versus competitor 2. So maybe lead
feeder versus albocross where you
typically build out maybe an article or
similar then position your tool as a new
better way showing where you stand out
sometimes where the intents right and
this can also work for things like
competitor alternative. You can rank
with an article or listical and
sometimes a landing page as well. So,
you can actually get two organic page
placements on page one, potentially more
if you've got a YouTube video ranking as
well because the intent's different. And
if you do the Google search for that
money keyword and you see articles and
landing pages ranking top, then why not
build out an article and a landing page
yourself so you can secure more real
estate, be more likely to get the
clickth through and more potential to
drive leads, signups or demos. So, this
was a strategy that we implemented for
RB2B. So, as we talked about earlier,
we've got the lead feeder alternatives
article listicle that's now ranking top
of organic. But, as we mentioned,
sometimes you can get those two spots in
Google's organic page one, potentially
three or more with YouTube videos
ranking as well. But here's the landing
page. So, we can see here we've got the
title RB2B best lead feeder alternative
for website visitor identification.
We've got the meta data. If you're
looking for a better lead feeder
alternative, RB2B identifies real people
visiting your site, names, titles,
LinkedIn, and more. or try it free. And
then the URL/ lead feeder hyphen
alternative. The H1, the number one lead
feeder alternative for person level
visitor website. And then we got the H1,
the number one lead feeder alternative
for person level website visitor
identification. So these landing pages
we're about to publish on the website
shortly. This Google doc gives you an
idea for how you can structure these
pages. So we often use like a problem
PAS, a problem agitation solution
framework. So you're tired of just
knowing what company visited your site.
RB2B is going to show you the exact
person, job title, LinkedIn profile and
more. Call to action. Shows you how we
structure the hero area based on
analyzing competitors. Some social proof
like reviews, G2 scores, etc. Table for
comparison, in this case, RB2B and lead
feeder. Some more visuals. Leveraging
customer research to show why sales
teams choose RB2B over Lead Feeder in
this case. Example visuals. So, we pull
from kind of competitor sites, get ideas
from other examples, then weave in our
own research. talk about core features
that dream clients actually care about.
Hot leads, hot pages, page suppression
insights, fire through to your CRM like
Salesforce, HubSpot, integrations,
again, some more visuals, some more
social proof with testimonials, and then
clear call to action, and then some FAQs
on landing pages. Often FAQs are slept
on. And like I say, problem agitation,
solution, framework, weaving in tons of
proof, examples, show the product in
action. People want to see under the
bonnet. They want to see that aha
moment. So many SAS tools don't actually
show the product in play or show gifts
or videos or case study reviews so
people can actually see what the tool's
like or even live demos in action. And
then FAQs that talk about real questions
that get raised on sales schools like is
it better? How difficult is it to
switch? Can it integrate with my CRM?
Can I track XYZ? What's the pricing? How
much do I get in the free plan? All that
kind of good stuff weaving in. As you
can see this this covers all basis
meaning that we can get a solid landing
page published on the site shortly.
We've also looked at use case pages. So
for terms like ABM software, you can see
that each month globally they're getting
around 1,400 or so searches on Google.
So some good potential there for some
decent sales intent behind that search.
So whilst this isn't a direct use case
for RB2B with ABM software, folks could
be looking for specific features that
RB2B provides when they are evaluating
these kind of tools or softwares. So,
it's a good chance to get into the
consideration set and a chunk of these
prospects may well go on and take a free
sign up of our tool. And the good thing
about this one again is we built a top
listical. So, the best nine ABM tools to
drive B2B revenue. Again, follow that
format we talked about earlier, where we
position our B2B as number one, sharing,
where they shine out, why folks choose
them, pros and cons, pricing, and all
that good stuff with a fair comparison
of the others. And also, as there's mix
intent, we could also look to rank for a
landing page. to again build that out
with a similar format that we talked
about before with that problem agitation
solution format with plenty of key use
cases that dream clients care about
plenty of social proof examples trust
signals more and then click call to
action so it's easy for prospects to
grab a free sign up and then wrapping
that up with FAQs from sales calls and
similar we also looked at articles
around the midfunnel using the jobs to
be done frameworks so what are our dream
clients struggling moments expensive
problems where they'll be searching for
a solution to that specific stumbling
block or whatever they're trying to get
done. So, this will be things like how
to scale ABM, how to use B2B intent
data, how to send website visitors to
Salesforce or how to send website
visitors to HubSpot or how to identify
and reach B2B decision makers. These are
great as they target prospects a bit
earlier in the buying journey with
specific problems that we solve that
they're looking to get done. Positions
are tool or product as the painkiller.
They're basically saying that this is
one way you could do it. You could
struggle in house, cobble this together
with Google Sheets or similar in a DIY
way. Or you can sign up for free using
our tool and make it 10x easier. Here's
some examples. Here's some gifts. Here's
some images of our product in play.
Here's some customer quotes, some social
proof. Grab a free sign up and you can
try it for yourself. Not only that, but
these jobs to be done, these specific
painoint focused articles are great for
appearing in both Google organic search
and LLMs. And if we share a couple
examples of these jobs to be done
articles, we've got here H1, how to send
website visitors to Salesforce,
step-by-step guide, quick summary. Quick
summary is nice at the top of these
articles as it can get pulled up in
Google AI overviews and similar talk
about the problem. You're struggling to
send your website visitors to Salesforce
before they bounce off your site. Why
should you listen to us? Again, this
section is nice to have as a H2 section
as it builds that trust and again can be
pulled up in AI overviews or AI
searches. Then you can show the product.
Show some social proof, some
testimonials. What does it mean? Why do
you want to do it? Exactly how you can
do it. Then talk through. This is
exactly where we can introduce the
product. This is how RB2B does it. Quick
and easy to sign up. Here's an example.
Plenty of screenshots we've shared of
the product in action step by step. So
someone can literally land on this and
think, awesome, I've got this problem.
This is exactly how I can solve it. I
can sign up for free. It looks nice and
easy. These are all the steps. I even
get this pinged through to Slack each
time someone visits my website. and then
it's almost kind of a no-brainer to take
the next step and sign up for free. So,
this is really solid for B2B SAS tools
that want to drive signups. And then a
very similar process for how to identify
and reach B2B decision makers. It's a
quick summary. Are you wondering how to
do it? Why should you listen to us? And
then again, walking through the exact
process, showing plenty of screenshots
and visuals of the product in play and
again making it almost a no-brainer for
someone that's struggling with this
issue to grab a sign up and and start
trying out the product. We also
identified some net new article product
listical opportunities. So we had six
cents alternative that has 300 searches
a month opportunity in terms of traffic
volume. We also had warmly alternatives
a super close direct competitor which
gets around 50 a month searches. And for
those listical articles we followed the
format that I shared earlier in the
video. And we built out a few new
category listicles. So we had best sales
prospecting software and best website
visitor ID software. In a sec, I'm going
to dig into the exact workflow and how
we've planned each month worth of
content up to now. But it's worth noting
that whenever you're building out
content for your B2B tech or SAS company
that it shouldn't be a wall of text, it
should be enjoyable for someone to flick
on on their mobile tablet or PC and
easily skim through. So have plenty of
visuals. It should be backed by customer
research. So it's actually going to
resonate with dream clients goals,
struggling moments, problems, or jobs to
be done. It's positioning your product
or solution or tool as a painkiller.
Like I say, plenty of visuals, gifts
showing that aha moment so folks really
understand problem your product solves
and why they should sign up. Book a demo
or book a call. Plenty of proof points.
So things like if it's an article, show
the author. Show social proof. Client
reviews, client quotes. If it's a
competitor article, maybe a case study
video of why someone switched over to
you. Making it a sales enabler. So
things like FAQs bringing up questions
that you actually get on sales calls.
So, not only does it convert skeptical
prospects, but it makes your sales
team's life way more easier and can be
even used as sales enablement content.
All right, so let's dive into the actual
work that we've done. So, I'm going to
go under the bonnet into the last few
months. We started around May 2025 and
the time recording now is September
2025. It's worth noting a lot of the
quick wins we've talked about have just
gone live as RB2B had a recent website
redesign and refresh and the landing
page side of things are being built out
and going live soon but a lot of the
articles listical net new and updates
that we've talked about have gone up and
running so started in May did the
strategy we talked about earlier we had
lead feeder alternative instantly
alternative lead forensics alternative
warmly alternative lead info alternative
snitcher alternative which was all
landing pages we already had articles
that were up and running that we updated
to rank well. We thought we might as
well secure two spots of real estate in
Google organic search and build a net
new landing page too. And then we also
had the sales tools product listical. On
top of that, we built three DA we
usually do DA50 plus actually niche
relevant links with a focus on website
visitor identification linking to the
homepage. June's plan net new pages were
articles. So listical for website
visitor identification software lead
forensics alternatives again listical
landing page for clear alternative
how-to jobs to be done article for how
to send website visitors to Salesforce
again we talked about that jobs to be
done framework position product is a
painkiller same kind of thing for how to
send website visitors to HubSpot and
then same thing for how to identify and
reach B2B decision makers we did the
updates to website visitor tracking
software list feeder alternatives list
clip alternatives list Salesforce CRM
Form we did an update to the page for a
page where folks might search for things
like identify website visitors and send
them to Salesforce and the same thing
for the HubSpot page with a rewrite. We
also did 3D50 links to website visitor
identification again to the homepage
rb2b.com. Everything we're doing as I go
through these plans is kind of focused
on time to value. So you've probably
heard of the 955 rule. We're focused on
that 5% of the total addressable market
that's searching for our solution,
looking to move away from a competitor,
looking for our software now or
evaluating options in the field and kind
of really drilling down on those money
search terms are likely to drive signups
demos looking for those quick wins from
existing content and looking at net new
opportunities and reinforcing those with
backlinks or listical placements. Now if
we look at July's work, so July wise net
new content was listical for B2B lead
generation software. Landing page for
lead generation software, product
listical for ABM software, landing page
for ABM software we showed earlier,
product listical for sales prospecting
software, landing page for sales
prospecting software, landing page for
website visitor identification software,
a new solution page, and then a how-to
jobs to be done kind of painkiller
pointed show the product in action drive
signups focused article for automated
lead generation. We did some updates to
the homepage. So we added some
organization and FAQ schema. We also did
some updates to Apollo alternatives and
we did three DA50 backlinks. Two to the
homepage for identify website visitors
and another one to the homepage for
website visit identification software.
August works flying through here. Net
new content for so we did how to scale
ABM B2B intent data. We did six cents
alternatives product listical warmly
alternatives product listical. So that
was only published recently, but looks
like we're ranking top three or four for
that one, which is nice considering it's
only just been published in the last
couple weeks. So that can show you kind
of how quickly these pages can rank,
especially competitor alternatives. I
mean, like I say, that was published
probably at the time now a couple weeks
back. So you can see these kind of
competitor pages. This one gets about 50
searches per month, but really high
sales intent. So it's something that we
can again position our B2B as the chosen
choice and it's it's likely to drive
signups pretty fast. So competitive
content really quick win for driving
impact within 90 days. Also in August as
well as those we updated some existing
pages added schema market added schema
markup structured data to lust
alternatives. Apollo alternatives Apollo
IO reviews io versus zoom info zoom info
versus rocket reach and seamless versus
zoom info. We're working on right now
three listical placements getting our to
be featured on external websites. top X
software listicles or top X tools
listicles really helps us get more LLM
visibility as LLMs love to pull from
listicles like we showed earlier and
also helps give us a solid backlink and
ramps up our Google visibility and
placements and rankings for money terms
that are perhaps a bit more difficult to
rank higher keyword difficulty and
perhaps more search volume and we also
built three backlinks to rbt.com
identify website visitors and website
visitor identification for rbt.com to
the homepage and then this month's work
net new content was We experimented with
some playbook style content. So doing
we're working on how to identify high
intent leads on your website. We're also
working on how to re-engage past
customers who visit your website again.
How to use intent data to support your
sales team. So quite crisp specific
search terms that might have low traffic
but really drill into expensive problems
jobs to be done. So again we can
position our our tool as the as the as
the preferred option as as a way to get
the job done. Doesn't have lots of
traffic but is likely to get surfaced in
AI searches. we can really show our
product kind of drive high intent kind
of signups. Working on a bunch of
existing content at the time of
recording. So updates to Apollo
alternatives, updates to intent data
providers, updates to zoom infair
alternatives, hunter alternatives and
lasher alternatives. Again, most of this
is benchmarking what's ranking top,
adding any unique data insights, adding
more trust signals, and also positioning
oursel as number one with a fair
comparison. Back links, we're doing a
bunch of backlinks this month. 1 2 3 4
5. So identify website visitors, website
visitor identification, B2B website
visitor identification or to the
homepage and then website visitor
tracking software. We're doing a couple
to that and also working on some
listical placements. And it's worth
pointing out real quick that RB2B has a
decent domain rating of 63 out of 100,
meaning it's acquired a decent amount of
solid niche relevant high authority
backlinks over the years. I believe RB2B
actually purchased this domain when they
fired up the SAS company around 18
months or so back purely to get that one
cool domain name rb2b.com and also to
get that domain rating. And I fully
appreciate many SAS and B2B companies
tuning in might not have the domain
authority domain rating. That's why when
it goes to finding your money keywords
going after those low difficulty terms.
So things like competitor alternatives.
So if I look at warmly alternative for
example we can see doesn't really have a
keyword difficulty pretty much showing
zero out of 100 in terms of difficulty
comes up anywhere from our research 20
to 50 around 50 searches per month but
no one searches warmly alternative which
are a direct competitor to be for fun
they search because they have high sales
intent they're probably frustrated with
the current solution and looking to move
away that's why that's one piece of the
puzzle looking for those low zero
difficulty keywords like we can see here
that have that high sales intent that
can often times times this content can
rank well within 90 days from our
experience. Often times within a couple
weeks, sometimes within that 90-day time
frame, but going after that low
difficulty, but high sales intent is the
money. That's where the money's at with
pipeline focused SEO, especially when
you have a low domain authority. And
focus with backlinks is to ramp up our
domain authority and also help us rank
top for those more competitive search
terms. So, when we're talking about
terms like pages like lead feeder
alternatives, those can rank fairly
easily. But when we get to terms like
visitor identification software and kind
of real competitive hight traffic terms,
that's where backlinks really kick into
play, it's going to help us ramp up our
authority, send those trust signals to
Google and give us an uptick. Even with
best-in-class content for those really
competitive keywords, those money
keywords, you're going to need backlinks
to give you a bit of a boost and secure
number one placements. So, if you check
my past videos and past podcasts, I've
shared an ultimate SAS SEO guide which
has a bunch of free ways. is I think
there's four or five different ways you
can earn back links for free. But one
that's super relevant here is for folks
like Adam. So if you've got anyone on
your team that's done a lot of press,
done a lot of media, maybe had podcast
appearances in the past, a quick win for
driving solid back links is you can copy
and paste their LinkedIn URL. You can
throw it into a tool like Hrefs. You can
then hit the back links tab. Once you've
paste in their LinkedIn URL, you can hit
the backlinks tab and you can see all
the external websites. You can filter
them via domain rating and then you can
see all the websites. So folks like Adam
Robinson from RB2B have done tons of
podcast, media appearances, press etc.
And a lot of the websites with good
domain authority like 90 plus I can see
here may have just linked to his
LinkedIn URL. So his profile but didn't
link to his homepage or didn't link to
one of the money pages, commercial
pages, bottom of funnel pages we're
focusing on. So a really quick win is to
make a list of these niche relevant
sites. they've got solid domain rating.
Look for who was the content writer who
wrote the article that's citing just his
LinkedIn URL and then reach out to them.
So, I'm a big fan of painfully short
messaging. So, I'd find the person on
LinkedIn that's wrote the page, piece of
press or article. Reach out to them
something like, "Hey, thanks for
featuring Adam in this page or this
article. Had a weird question you
against a quick convo." Something like
that. Painfully short piques their
curiosity. Once they connect with you,
I'd send them a Loom video so you stand
out from the crowd. Maybe have the page
in the background and just say something
like, "Hey, thanks for featuring Jess or
Adam in this article. You link to their
LinkedIn URL. I wondered if you could
add a do follow link to one of our money
pages." So maybe for our B2B it's like
website visitor identification software
and link back to our homepage as a do
follow link. Wonder if that would be
okay. Most folks would be absolutely
fine to do that cuz they've already
taken the effort of featuring your
founder or your exec in the article or
page and it's just going to be a quick
small edit. Having a system to do that
and going through those pages that have
good domain rating that are relevant to
your niche or your industry and that
just haven't linked back to your website
for some of those money keywords can be
a solid way give you a nice uptick. In
fact, that's one of the things I did
when I launched my website breaking
B2B.com. We started ranking for money
terms like SAS SEO agency, B2B SEO
agency 90 days from publishing on a
brand new domain with zero authority
just because I had past press. I did a
load of podcast interviews and YouTube
interviews in the past. just reach out
to those folks and got them to backlink
to our money pages for some of our money
terms. Really quick uplift and a lot of
B2B and tech companies will have
founders, marketing, revenue leaders,
operations leaders that have done past
press. You can get that quick win
following that flow there. And then the
last piece of the puzzle is getting
listical placements. We've talked about
owning the narrative, controlling the
narrative, having listicles on our own
website, making sure they're
best-in-class, they're ranking
effectively on Google, and also getting
us that LM visibility because these
listicles are cited all the time in chat
GBT. and similar. We're also finding
external websites that are relevant to
top x software, top x tools or perhaps
competitor alternatives. Those sites
that are ranking well in Google that are
getting some traffic. So, we have a
process to reach out to those folks and
some folks will be up for a value
exchange. So, maybe you do that
painfully short message request and Loom
video we talked about on LinkedIn,
finding whoever wrote the article or
page there. Maybe you offer them a value
exchange like we'll feature you on our
podcast or we'll do a backlink exchange
or we'll do a guest post. And many will
be happy to do that value exchange to
get you top three in their listicles or
some will be paytoplay. But if you have
a process for getting into all of your
niche relevant listicles, not only is
that going to get you a solid backlink,
it's going to help your Google
visibility, your AI visibility, and get
you cited consistently in chat GBT for
those money prompts, those money terms,
just because right now LLMs love
plucking from listicles and citing them.
And there we have it. So a quick recap,
SEO is best placed when you think of the
955 rule. Any one given time only 5%
roughly of your dream target market are
going to be in market for your solution.
So start with those money longtail
keywords. Quite often in B2B tech and
SAS that's competitor alternative or
competitor one versus competitor 2 or
best X software tools and also
considering those real niche and
specific jobs to be done keywords where
you position your product or tool as a
painkiller. Go for those quick wins. If
you've already got the commercial
content, use tools like hrefs or semrush
so you can find those pages that are
lagging maybe towards the bottom half of
Google organic and look for those quick
wins to update that content. Refresh,
make it more useful, trustworthy, and if
you need to send back links to it, do
that so you can get them top three
organic. So get those quick wins to get
those top three organic. Build your own
assets. Look to control the narrative.
Build all of your own listicles for all
that competitor content as well as the
best X software and similar. For some
keywords, you might be able to rank for
both an article and landing page. So
assess the intent. See if Google is
ranking for both articles and landing
pages and where they make sense. Do both
to get those double placements.
Reinforce those competitive keywords
with solid back links. Leverage past
media like we talked about. And if you
want more in-depth strategies, check out
my ultimate SAS SEO guide on YouTube or
the breaking B2B podcast. It's also
worth noting at the time of recording at
least, Google's still the beast for
demand capture. It's roughly around 2%
of search market for AI tools and Google
is one of the dominant beasts when it
comes to demand capture for search. But
AI search is only going to grow and one
of the biggest plays to get featured in
AI search results for those bottom of
funnel high sales intent queries and
prompts is brand mentions. That's why
listical placements, building list goals
on your own site and getting featured on
other sites is so big. but also things
like guesting on podcasts, being active
on communities like Reddit, Quora, where
folks are talking about your tool,
talking about your software, talking
about solutions like yours, looking for
recommendations, and recommending your
product where it's a natural fit and
more thinking about where you can get
your brand mentioned in a way that's
ethical and actually is valuable and
useful to prospects that are checking it
out, whatever type of site that is. And
the beauty of this strategy is you'll
probably think, Sam, you said AI search,
but a lot of this is just classic
bottomunnel SEO to drive signups, leads,
and demos. And from what we've seen, at
least so far at breaking B2B is getting
visibility on AI and LLMs is really just
great bottomunnel SEO backed by customer
research ramped up by digital PR to get
your brand mentioned on places that are
relevant to your niche that your dream
clients are actually hanging out on. And
there you have it. That's the exact SEO
strategy that we're running for our B2B
so far. Now, if you want to start taking
SEO seriously for your B2B or SAS
company and perhaps lack the resources,
but want to start driving organic
signups, demos, or booked calls through
both Google organic and LLMs, why not
grab a call with me over at
breakingb2b.com or hit the link in the
description below. We can chat through
exactly where you're at, see if SEO is a
good fit, and talk about some practical
ways we can start driving pipeline
through organic search. So, head over to
breakingb2b.com or hit that link in the
description below to grab your call. Or
if you're not ready, you can grab my 90
days to revenue SEO playbook. Head over
to breakingb2b.com and hit the
newsletter tab. Or you can check out the
breaking B2B podcast for weekly SEO
tips, B2B marketing case studies, and
interviews with SAS marketing leaders.
And with that, I shall catch you on the
next one. Cheers.